---
excerpt: "<p>I think that I may have been completing the elbow drill in 12 - 14 strokes.</p>"
layout: training_diary
title: Swim Practice
created: 1386952182
---
<p>I think that I may have been completing the elbow drill in 12 - 14 strokes.</p><p>The first two drills were easier (emotionally) knowing what to expect. I knew that I was going to have to approach them as an opportunity to focus on different things, as opposed to seeing some large improvement from the previous time I had done them. At this point, though, I think that I will have to figure out how to best utilize those drills beyond just a warmup for the ear-hop drill. I'm sure there's a way that I can use them to imprint even better swimming form for the recovery, balance, rotation and breathing.</p><p>Now even the fingertip drill feels like there is so much resistance in the water.</p><p>I was diligent about targeting 10 strokes for all six repeats on the ear-hop drill. The first repeat took me about 10.25 strokes. Repeats two through five took me between 9.5 and 10 strokes. On the sixth repeat I was able to use just 8.75 strokes!</p><p>I'm really curious whether I'm "cheating" on the ear-hop drill to reduce the strokes or if I'm genuinely that much better at this point. If I can truly swim 17.5 yards in eight strokes, that would equate to 11.5 strokes for 25 yards. I am guessing that the push off the wall makes a bigger difference on 17.5 yards, though. But, even making some type of adjustment for the push off, I should still be able to swim 25 yards in 13 or 14 strokes at most. So, my new target for tomorrow is to see if I can swim the ear-hop drills in eight strokes. I am betting that seven strokes would be my absolute limit. I can't see how I could complete the length in just six strokes without artificially skating or gliding for an extended time.</p><p>I guess once I start using a tempo trainer I will have more concrete evidence about whether I'm "cheating."</p><p>To the best of my ability to sense what I'm doing, I believe that my breathing and kicking are looking pretty good. I'm looking forward to what my coach tells me about them on Sunday. If he comes up with practice that I can do to improve them, that would actually be a good thing.</p><p>I'm looking forward to see what I'll be practicing next week and where my coach thinks I'm headed from here.</p>
