---
excerpt: "<p>2013 has proved to continue to be a busy year. I guess that's just the
  way life is going to keep on being for me, though.</p><p>Eli is just over 20 months
  old and doing great. We are working on getting him to use two-word sentences. He
  has almost 90 words that he knows and is now always picking up new ones.</p><p>Lana's
  practice slowed down a bit over the summer months, but has otherwise been doing
  very well.</p><p>My web development business is doing well and I have been focusing
  on taking my expertise to the next level.</p>"
layout: blog
title: Hello, again. It's been awhile hasn't it?
created: 1378835867
---
<p>2013 has proved to continue to be a busy year. I guess that's just the way life is going to keep on being for me, though.</p><p>Eli is just over 20 months old and doing great. We are working on getting him to use two-word sentences. He has almost 90 words that he knows and is now always picking up new ones.</p><p>Lana's practice slowed down a bit over the summer months, but has otherwise been doing very well.</p><p>My web development business is doing well and I have been focusing on taking my expertise to the next level.</p><p>That's it for the super-quick, high-level summary. And now on to the announcement that really sparks me to finally sit down and write another post.</p><p>I plan to do an IronMan triathlon for my 50th birthday. I have a friend who just completed the IronMan Wisconsin on Sunday (September 8). So, I started thinking about how I will need to prepare for my goal of completing in 12 hours or fewer. I realized that I need to start now. Here is the outline:</p><p>2014 Race Season: Olympic distance events</p><p>2015 Race Season: 1/2 IM distance events</p><p>2016 Race Season: 1/2 IM distance events with goal of completing each one in around 5 hours</p><p>2017 Race Season: Train for and complete IM Wisconsin</p><p>With that outline laid out I completed my first run workout this morning. I walked to Kendrick Lake and then did two loops (2 miles) around the lake and walked back home for a total of approximately 3 miles. Eli went along for the workout in his stroller.</p><p>I don't have a long-term training plan in place for the 2014 season, yet. What I have been doing in anticipation of this point in time returning has been aiming to walk three times each day for about two miles each time. Now I will need to set a new goal for how I will be structuring my workouts.</p><p>I labelled this post "good news" because I think that it's great that I am finally getting back into triathlon and its corresponding exercise regimen. So, I am saying "Hello, again" not only to this blog but to a part of me that has been dormant for the most part for 8 or 9 years now.</p><p>Welcome back, fitness Marc!</p><p>Bhavatu, sabba, mangalam -- May all beings be happy.</p>
