---
excerpt: "<p>Yesterday when I wrote that I can't let so much time pass before my next
  workout I wasn't thinking that I was going to do another one today. But, last night
  I realized that I felt really good. I was also going to be early. So, I decided
  that I would do a nice early morning run today.</p>"
layout: training_diary
title: 3 Mile Kendrick Lake Loop
created: 1380028588
---
<p>Yesterday when I wrote that I can't let so much time pass before my next workout I wasn't thinking that I was going to do another one today. But, last night I realized that I felt really good. I was also going to be early. So, I decided that I would do a nice early morning run today.</p><p>As it turns out, Zen had gotten up some time early in the morning and I wasn't able to get back to sleep. Once he woke me up my mind starting racing (no pun intended). So, I was basically just laying in my bed, relaxing the best I could, waiting for my alarm to go off. When my alarm did go off (at 5:45), I got right out of bed and changed into my running gear.</p><p>I was certainly well rewarded for my early start! When I stepped outside, it was still dark and the sky was perfectly clear. The moon just recently past its fullest stage and it's now waning. I'd say it's about 7/8 full right now and it and the stars were absolutely gorgeous.</p><p>I wore my running tights, a long sleeve shirt and my long sleeve Bucktown 5K polyester running shirt. While I didn't get too warm during the run, I probably also would have been fine with just the long sleeve shirt.</p><p>I actually felt light and fast during the run (for about 1.5 loops around the lake). I wonder if I'm back into the swing of things. I wouldn't say that my previous workouts were labored. But, I have been conscious of taking a really easy pace. I wasn't pushing the pace at all today, either and I'm not sure if I did go any faster. But, it sure felt different.</p><p>I wasn't sure when I was going to increase my distance. But, now I think I will see if I continue to be ready to run every day. If I keep this up through this week, then I think I will plan to increase the distance next week (and bring the number of workouts down to three).</p><p>It's probably also time for me to get my Garmin Forerunner 301 back in working order again.</p>
