---
excerpt: "<p>I started following the Just Finish program in Don Fink's beIronfit book.
  I headed to the fitness center and completed a 1600 yd swim workout, 15 minute run
  workout and a strength training workout.</p>"
layout: training_diary
title: 'Fitness Center Multi #1'
created: 1380666336
---
<p>I started following the Just Finish program in Don Fink's beIronfit book. I headed to the fitness center and completed a 1600 yd swim workout, 15 minute run workout and a strength training workout.</p><p>For the various swim drills I practiced balancing on my chest and back, swam with the fist gloves and practiced one arm swimming. (I feel like I'm forgetting some of the drills I did.) The main set was 5 X 100 @ 20 seconds rest and is supposed to be done at 80% - 85% perceived effort. My strap wasn't tight enough on the heart rate monitor, so I don't know what the exact exertion was. But, I would say that I would say I perceived it somewhere in the right range. The 100's came in at somewhere around 2 minutes. I think that I need to aim for getting my pace down to 1.5 minutes / 100 yds for the 2.4 mile swim. That's about a 25% improvement from where I'm starting right now.</p><p>I did the 15 minute run at a 10:00 pace. As it turns out, I think that was a little too slow. I got confused about what my heart rate was supposed to be.</p><p>I did two sets of each weight lifting exercise completing about 12 reps in each set. I used the following weights on the exercises: Leg Press - 90; Lat Pull - 40; Leg Extension - 30; Chest Press 30; Leg Curl - 30; Arm Curl - 30; Tricep Curl - 30; Calf Raises - 25 @ side of the barbell. I think I did three sets each of Abdominal Crunches, Cockroach and Press-Ups.</p><p>I weighed in at 131.5 after I finished the whole workout, wearing shorts, t-shirt and running shoes. I don't believe I lost much water weight during the swim. I really didn't sweat at all during the run or strength training.</p><p>I renewed my USAT membership and registered for Ironman Boulder 70.3 this afternoon. The race is June 15, 2014, which puts the beginning of the 30-week training on Tuesday, November 17, 2013. I am going to follow week #1 of the program for the next eight weeks (with the eighth week being the actual start of the 30 weeks of training program).</p><p>Week #29 of the program falls during DrupalCon Austin. So, I'll have to make sure to find out where I can access a pool and a stationary bike.</p>
