---
excerpt: "<p>I don't know how many total meters I swam today. The workout involved
  a lot of kick type sets. There was one pull set. There were swim 100 fast in between
  the drill sets.</p><p>I found the kick sets to be really exhausting. But, I think
  that my kick is much better than it was before.</p><p>I decided to use a pull buoy
  for the pull set. The buoyancy threw off my body position a little bit, particularly
  with regards to rotation. But, I felt really good with regards to my arms. I probably
  should have set the stroke rate faster than 1.35 seconds per stroke.</p>"
layout: training_diary
title: Masters Swim
created: 1389283702
---
<p>I don't know how many total meters I swam today. The workout involved a lot of kick type sets. There was one pull set. There were swim 100 fast in between the drill sets.</p><p>I found the kick sets to be really exhausting. But, I think that my kick is much better than it was before.</p><p>I decided to use a pull buoy for the pull set. The buoyancy threw off my body position a little bit, particularly with regards to rotation. But, I felt really good with regards to my arms. I probably should have set the stroke rate faster than 1.35 seconds per stroke.</p><p>I did at least two of the fast sets at 1.25 seconds per stroke. I can remember counting my strokes on one of those sets. The 50m back added two or three strokes to the 50m out. I think my count was something like 42 strokes out and 45 strokes back. The 1.25 pace felt really good. I felt like I could have gone even a bit faster. I did not record my times for the fast sets, though. So, I can only assume that my speed was pretty good (for me) based on the fact that my stroke count was reasonably in range.</p><p>It's really interesting for me how much of a difference it makes when I just intersperse those sets at a higher stroke rate. On the other sets I was using 1.35 seconds per stroke. At yesterday's workout things were really falling apart at 1.28 seconds per stroke. Obviously, I'm dealing with a fatigue issue. Once my body gets stronger I will be able to maintain a higher stroke rate for more repetitions and longer distances. That will be so amazing when I reach that point. I can say that it felt awesome cruising along at the 1.25 seconds per stroke rate today.</p><p>Today is most likely my last Thursday Masters swim. From now through the end of the season I think that I will be swimming only on Tuesdays with the Masters group.</p><p>Even though I had to do a bunch of drills that I wouldn't normally do on my own, I'm really glad that I did the workout. Part of the reason that I think it's good to go to Masters is to be forced to do things I wouldn't otherwise do. It's not the end of the world if I do some drills that TI would recommend against. I think that the benefits I get for my brain and body more than outweigh the drawbacks of spending some time on things that are a bit out of line with the TI philosophy. I think it's also good to be in the lane with other swimmers and to have to keep on track with the workout. I think that the circumstances do force me to push myself harder. And if nothing else, the variety is extremely welcome.</p>
