---
excerpt: "<p>I swam 10 X 100 @ 1.30; 1.29; 1.28; 1.28; 1.29; 1.30; 1.29; 1.28; 1.29;
  1.30 seconds per stroke.</p><p>My fastest time was the first repeat and it was nine
  seconds faster than my last repeat, which was my slowest repeat.</p><p>The best-fit
  line would have a relatively steep positive slope. However, if I drew a curve then
  it looks like it would level off at about 118 seconds per 100 yards.</p>"
layout: training_diary
title: Tempo Trainer Practice
created: 1389197876
---
<p>I swam 10 X 100 @ 1.30; 1.29; 1.28; 1.28; 1.29; 1.30; 1.29; 1.28; 1.29; 1.30 seconds per stroke.</p><p>My fastest time was the first repeat and it was nine seconds faster than my last repeat, which was my slowest repeat.</p><p>The best-fit line would have a relatively steep positive slope. However, if I drew a curve then it looks like it would level off at about 118 seconds per 100 yards.</p><p>Decreasing the seconds per stroke absolutely did not give me any additional speed. It did seem to create a definite shortening in my stroke length, though. So, while I had hoped to do 10 X 100 @ 1.30; 1.29; ... ; 1.21, it was clear from very early that I needed to change that plan.</p><p>I am a long ways off from being able to swim 1:46 per 100 yards. I think a good initial goal is to be able to swim 10 X 100 @ 1:54 / 100. (A longer term goal will be to swim 10 X 100 @ 1:46 / 100 and 14 seconds rest in between each repetition.)</p><p>I don't know what stroke rate that will equate to. But, figuring 72 strokes / 100 would give me 1.58 seconds per stroke. 80 strokes / 100 would give me 1.43 seconds per stroke. Both of those rates are much too slow. On the other hand, calculating 1.30 seconds per stroke gives me a range of 1:34 - 1:44 at 72 and 80 strokes / 100 respectively. My best time today was 1:48.8 @ 1.30 seconds per stroke and about 74 strokes (which would evaluate to 136.2). So, my counting of strokes is not tying out exactly. That's not surprising considering the fact that I glide for a bit when I push off the wall. If I calculate what the stroke count "should" be for my best time it would come out to about 84, which is 21 strokes / 25.</p><p>The net outcome of all this tinkering with calculations is that I'm just going to have to actually swim and see how things work out. My bigger interest / concern is how things work out in the open water; there is no push off the wall there and I would think that my times would have to more accurately reflect the math of my seconds per stroke and my actual stroke length. I guess the best I can do is to get a clear sense of where my sweet spot lies with regards to stroke rate versus stroke length (or actual speed). But, I still can't resist doing a bit of predicting open water equivalents.</p><p>Using 84 strokes / 100 yards in the open water means I would need to maintain a stroke rate of 1.19 seconds per stroke to maintain 100 seconds / 100 yards. It's pretty interesting that the stroke rate came out to that amount, since Danny had figured I should be practicing at 1.18 seconds per stroke.</p><p>I think it's definitely worthwhile for me to do a few workouts of 10 X 100 @ 1.35 seconds per stroke; tomorrow I'm going to do the Masters workout, though. (Assuming 84 strokes / 100 in the open water would give me a time of about 113 seconds / 100 at this stroke rate. My goal for the 2014 season is actually in between 116 and 117 seconds / 100.)</p><p>This was a challenging workout. Fortunately, it was challenging for my body and not my breath. The new breathing pattern is working well. I think now I need to allow time for my body to get strong enough to maintain the effort throughout the whole workout and ultimately for longer distances.</p>
