---
excerpt: <p>I purchased a Cateye Strada (CC-RD420DW) bike computer yesterday so that
  I could do the workout on the rollers today. It measures Speed, Cadence and Heart
  Rate.</p><p>Today's workout was 90 minutes in Zone 2. I wasn't sure how it was going
  to go. I haven't ridden the rollers in close to ten years. Fortunately, I was able
  to get used to them very quickly. I did use my "training wheel" setup of having
  the bike repair stand on one side of me and another sturdy object on the other.
  Also, I wore my gym shoes instead of my cycling shoes.</p>
layout: training_diary
title: Rollers
created: 1393716120
---
<p>I purchased a Cateye Strada (CC-RD420DW) bike computer yesterday so that I could do the workout on the rollers today. It measures Speed, Cadence and Heart Rate.</p><p>Today's workout was 90 minutes in Zone 2. I wasn't sure how it was going to go. I haven't ridden the rollers in close to ten years. Fortunately, I was able to get used to them very quickly. I did use my "training wheel" setup of having the bike repair stand on one side of me and another sturdy object on the other. Also, I wore my gym shoes instead of my cycling shoes.</p><p>The bike computer certainly calculates things very differently from the stationary bike. I would have to assume that the bike computer is actually more accurate. (Stats for the workout are below)</p><p>I didn't do all 90 minutes without taking any breaks. I think that my first "repeat" was around 43 minutes. I got off the bike to drink some water, grab a t-shirt to wipe the sweat off my face and glasses and give my crotch a chance to relieve some of the numbness. I think that I took two or three more breaks in the remaining time.</p><p>This workout I had the clock radio playing a radio station with the alarm set to buzz at 90 minutes. I think that what I will plan to do for future workouts is to take a break every 30 minutes.</p><p>In certain regards riding the rollers was much easier than the stationary bike. I was able to ride in a reasonably big gear at a faster speed. In other regards it's harder riding the rollers. There's the constant need to stay focused so that I don't fall off the rollers. I can't change my position on the bike too easily. With more practice on the rollers I would think that these things will get easier.</p><p>I think it's good to do the different workouts. I am even considering purchasing some type of resistance trainer for when I need to do workouts that include intervals. I can get different benefits from the stationary bike, rollers, resistance trainer and actually riding on the road.</p><p>So, here are the stats from the computer:</p><ul><li>1:26:59 total riding time</li><li>31 total miles</li><li>21.3mph average speed</li><li>22.9mph max speed</li></ul><p>It would be nice if the computer saved stats for the cadence and heart rate as well. Maybe that will be something I will decide is important enough at some point to warrant upgrading the bike computer yet again. I can say that I did a good job of keeping the cadence very close to 90rpm. My heart rate was in the range of 138 - 141 bpm.</p>
