---
excerpt: "<p>I finally got rid of my cold sometime within the last week or so. Just
  to give my body a complete chance to recover I decided that I would wait a couple
  of weeks to resume my workouts. I've still got one more week to go and I'm getting
  really anxious.</p>"
layout: blog
title: Itching to get back into training
created: 1405877073
---
<p>I finally got rid of my cold sometime within the last week or so. Just to give my body a complete chance to recover I decided that I would wait a couple of weeks to resume my workouts. I've still got one more week to go and I'm getting really anxious.</p><p>My current plan is that on Tue - Thu, I will do "Sprint" workouts: swim 15 minutes, bike 45 minutes and run 30 minutes. I will do a long swim (one hour) on Fridays, long bike (four hours) on Saturdays and long run (three hours) on Sundays. Naturally, I will have to adapt the long bike and long run to give myself a chance to be able to do that many hours; I don't want to immediately overtrain myself and get injured. I will also be varying the Sprint workouts with regards to the intensity. Some workouts will be just doing all three legs at a super easy level of effort. The other end of the spectrum will be doing all three legs at a high level of effort. The in-between workouts will modify how much of each leg contains high intensity intervals through a full out effort.</p><p>My idea is that I will run this new workout plan until somewhere around late Fall / early Winter. I'd like to see about doing an eight week Time Crunched Cyclist program in between this new plan and resuming the 30 week "Just Finish" program for next season.</p><p>I'm not totally decided if I should sign up for a full IM next year, but I am leaning heavily towards "yes." The worst that would happen would be that I'd have to bail on actually doing the race and I would have spent all that money for nothing. I'd like to do Boulder's half IM and Boulder's full IM in 2015. I can say that if registration were open right now for the half and the full I'd sign up for both of them. So, while I say that I'm not totally decided, I think that I really am. I'm just not totally certain that I'm going to actually be able to do the full IM. It's too bad that I won't have enough time to get any feedback from training to see if it makes sense. By the time I would know whether I could pull of the full IM in 2015, registration would be long since closed and I'd have to look at doing doing it through a charity.</p>
