---
excerpt: <p>I have been working hard since Wednesday to get my <a href="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/vegantriathlete/teach-yourself-drupal">Kickstarter
  campaign</a> off the ground. I knew that it would take time, but didn't know it
  would take this much time. I'm having to get up to speed on social media and spending
  a good deal of time working to get the word out.</p>
layout: blog
title: A new venture
created: 1416628800
---
<p>I have been working hard since Wednesday to get my <a href="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/vegantriathlete/teach-yourself-drupal">Kickstarter campaign</a> off the ground. I knew that it would take time, but didn't know it would take this much time. I'm having to get up to speed on social media and spending a good deal of time working to get the word out.</p><p>I feel a mixture of emotions including excitement, hope, frustration and fear. Things are off to a slow start with regards to backers. I haven't gotten any new backers today and righ now I've got a total of five backers and $305. I've got a long way to go to reach $64,000. Mostly I think that I need to stick with it, be patient and learn everything I can from the experience.</p><p>On Wednesday, I was contacted by a company that provides help getting the word out. After talking to them on Thursday I decided to engage them. Today I got the draft of the press release and I made my edits and sent it back to them for submission. I don't know if it will go out over the weekend or if it will go out on Monday.</p><p>I've done lots of "tweeting at" other relevant twitter profiles. One of my tweets has gotten me a phone call with @TalkingDrupal next Tuesday. I don't know if this is a screening for Wednesday's podcast, but I hope that it does result in me being interviewed for one of their weekly Drupal podcasts. I should get a lot of exposure from being interviewed by them.</p><p>I have a list of people I want to email directly that I haven't made my way through yet. I also am thinking that I may contact High School career counselors to ask them to get the word out to their students.</p><p>Onward and upward!</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
