---
excerpt: "<p>It's so important for me to record this right now. It's the reason I
  started this blog in the first place.</p><p>I feel like I've had my whole world
  turned upside down. I feel like I'm a fool who has been living in an alternate reality,
  a fantasy world. I feel like I've been totally delusional.</p>"
layout: blog
title: I was wrong
created: 1478711645
---
<p>It's so important for me to record this right now. It's the reason I started this blog in the first place.</p><p>I feel like I've had my whole world turned upside down. I feel like I'm a fool who has been living in an alternate reality, a fantasy world. I feel like I've been totally delusional.</p><p>The fact that Donald Trump is going to be our next president has thrown me into a tailspin and a huge pit of despair. I was absolutely convinced that he stood no chance whatsoever of being elected. I rejoiced with glee when he won the Republican nomination for president because I thought that guaranteed a Democrat, ANY Democrat, was going to be elected.</p><p>I looked at the projections on Five Thirty Eight and put complete faith in them. I thought that Trump supporters were unwilling to face reality and were living in their own alternate reality.</p><p>I pride myself on being able to look at facts and evidence and make a reasoned conclusion about things. At this moment in time I'm questioning everything I thought I ever knew. I just can't believe how wrong I was about the way things ended up going with this election. I have been shocked so deeply that I feel like I have been totally and utterly invalidated and exposed as a complete fraud.</p><p>It's Wednesday, November 9; the day after the election. I know that this, too, shall pass. I know that we (all of us) will make it through this. And yet, I'm so shaken by this outcome that I am reluctant to claim that I know anything.</p><p>I am so devastated at this moment. And so I will just focus on breathing. And I will focus on today. Tomorrow I will focus on tomorrow.</p><p>Today I have everything I need to make it through the day. I am totally fine. In almost every way today is no different for me than it would have been if Hillary Clinton (or anybody else) had won.</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
