---
excerpt: "<p>I've started doing (at least a few) things a little bit differently in
  2016. Maybe there is still more that I'll need to do differently.</p><p>After fighting
  against a cold for a ridiculous amount of time, I have begun exercising again. It's
  not just about getting into shape; it's also about making sure that I don't just
  sit in front of my computer all day long seven days a week.</p>"
layout: blog
title: Checking in
created: 1454204742
---
<p>I've started doing (at least a few) things a little bit differently in 2016. Maybe there is still more that I'll need to do differently.</p><p>After fighting against a cold for a ridiculous amount of time, I have begun exercising again. It's not just about getting into shape; it's also about making sure that I don't just sit in front of my computer all day long seven days a week.</p><p>I'm consciously reminding myself about taking a new approach to building my success on Udemy. My focus at the moment is to put the time into my existing classes to bring them up to snuff. If nothing else, I want to ensure that my portfolio of classes on Udemy is something that I would be proud to show to prospective clients without having to issue any type of excuse or disclaimer.</p><p>I'm investing time to build my personal brand, grow my audience and foster relationships.</p><p>Any new (paid) courses I create will be launched to an audience that I have verified is waiting for those courses.</p><p>I have taken on some web development work to provide a good base income so that I don't have to approach building an income with my courses in a desperate fashion.</p><p>I think that these changes are beginning to pay off. I've provided more details and perspective in my <a href="https://github.com/MarcEIsaacson/2016-Ridiculously-Open-Repository/wiki/2016-01-30" target="_blank">2016 Ridiculously Open Repository Wiki</a>.</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p><p>(p.s. I've also come to learn that if I really wanted this blog to get any attention, I'd have to invest the time in commenting on other blogs and building relationships with other bloggers. At this point in time, I am consciously choosing not to worry about whether anybody else ever ends up reading this or not. It's enough for me to continue treating this as my internet-accessible personal journal.)</p>
