---
excerpt: <p>It was just over two weeks ago that I wrote about reading "Callings" by
  Gregg Levoy. I finished it a few days ago. I also contacted the author to tell him
  I'd like to interview him for my <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y8amCnnn_Jk&amp;list=PL88FGxst5S8VM7mis_7OHjmnJwGkVALsR"
  target="_blank">"Inspiration for Success" Blabcast</a>. He got back to me that same
  day telling me that he'd be willing to do it. I followed up to answer some of his
  questions and to get the ball rolling. Unfortunately, I have not received a response.
  Bummer.
layout: blog
title: Following through
created: 1465047131
---
<p>It was just over two weeks ago that I wrote about reading "Callings" by Gregg Levoy. I finished it a few days ago. I also contacted the author to tell him I'd like to interview him for my <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y8amCnnn_Jk&amp;list=PL88FGxst5S8VM7mis_7OHjmnJwGkVALsR" target="_blank">"Inspiration for Success" Blabcast</a>. He got back to me that same day telling me that he'd be willing to do it. I followed up to answer some of his questions and to get the ball rolling. Unfortunately, I have not received a response. Bummer. I'll follow up in a bit if I still don't hear from him.</p><p>The blog post was titled "I think I need to dance now." I'm planning to follow up on that today; I need to see what classes are offered at the fitness center. I'm pretty sure there is a Zumba class offered on Saturday.</p><p>I've started re-reading "Whistle While You Work" by Richard Leider and David Shapiro. They created a concept of "calling cards." In anticipation of reading their specific calling cards, I started writing down my own thoughts about what I have naturally done throughout my life. Here is what came to mind:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Asking questions</li><li>Seeking patterns</li><li>Shaking complaceny</li><li>Valuing consistency</li><li>Pursuing justice</li><li>Solving problems</li><li>Overcoming challenges</li><li>Accomplishing goals</li><li>Chasing dreams</li><li>Exploring ideas</li><li>Thinking thoughts</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>This morning I had a few more ideas that might serve well to capture the things in the list above.</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Raising consciousness</li><li>Living consciously</li><li>Living on purpose (Living purposefully)</li><li>Looking within</li><li>Examining life</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>I'm thinking about starting another YouTube channel that would be called something like "Can We Talk?" The very rough idea I have so far is that I'd spend approximately fifteen minutes talking to people on Blab each day to examine what's going on in their life. I guess that maybe this experiment is meant to test out moving in the direction of being a life coach and / or motivational speaker. I may use Craigslist to find people who are willing to participate. A while back (as in many years ago) when I wanted to get some practice coaching clients, I used the Craigslist approach; it was not incredibly successful. So, I may have to come up with a better idea to find fellow experimenters / performance artists. First, I've got to write my "pitch" that explains more clearly what I'll be doing, what people can expect from their participation and what disclaimers they need to agree to.</p><p>I guess that's about it for now. Stay tuned for further updates.</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
