---
excerpt: Keeping an open mind and enjoying the "now".
layout: blog
title: Thoughts I have been thinking
created: 1465837133
---
<p>I wrote some things down yesterday and today after going for a walk.</p><p>Yesterday's thoughts:</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>A key to succeeding (at anything) is to cultivate the ability to experience the journey.</li><li>To be filled in: How does this ability help to foster success? What are examples I can give of how things are different once a person cultivates this ability?</li><li>If you want to move forward you have to let go of the things that are holding you back.</li><li>Why don't people let go?<ul><li>They don't know what's holding them back.</li><li>They don't know they are holding on.</li><li>They don't know what's back and what's forward.</li><li>The fear of letting go exceeds the pain of holding on.</li></ul></li><li>I am willing to experience:<ul><li>failure</li><li>rejection</li><li>ridicule</li><li>fear</li><li>uncertainty</li></ul></li><li>I am willing to let go of:<ul><li>shame</li><li>self-limiting thoughts</li><li>others' expectations</li></ul></li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>Today's thoughts (meant to stand on their own and not be connected to yesterday's, although there may be value in connecting them):</p><p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>What if the complete opposite is true?</li><li>What would it take for the complete opposite to be true?</li><li>What would it mean if the complete opposite is true?</li><li>What if someone who claims to love another really hates?</li><li>What if someone who claims to hate another really loves?</li><li>Either can lead to the person doing horrible things that s/he would not do if s/he would just admit the truth.<ul><li>The "lover" manipulating, sabotaging or abusing</li><li>The "hater" overcompensating and being needlessly cruel</li></ul></li><li>What if the child who exclaims, "I hate you and want nothing to do with you!" is just protecting her/himself from the pain of not receiving the affection s/he so desperately craves?</li><li>What if the "successful" CEO really wishes s/he were self-employed (even) at a fraction of the income?</li><li>What if the spiritual, anti-material individual really wishes s/he had more money and "stuff"?</li><li>What if the wealthy socialite really hates the golfing, tennis, parties, socializing and all the other material stuff and really wishes s/he had a simple life with a few close friends / family?</li></ul><p>&nbsp;</p><p>As I seek to raise consciousness, if I can't think of any other question to ask, I can always ask "What if the opposite is the truth?" The key is for me to always be asking questions, as opposed to seeking to provide answers. I'd rather cultivate a reputation for being good at asking questions than for being good at giving answers.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
