---
excerpt: <p>First off, the title is not about stating the circumstances in my life.
  There is nothing going wrong right now. Things are going well overall. The title
  is meant to be a reality check. It's a true question. How many things could really
  go wrong? There are only so many that can go wrong. Many things will go right. Therefore,
  it's not necessary for me to plan for a ridiculous amount of things going wrong.
  I don't need a plan "A" and back it up with plans, B, C, D, E, F, . . . Plan "A"
  and Plan "B" should generally be sufficient.</p>
layout: blog
title: How many things could really go wrong?
created: 1466012771
---
<p>First off, the title is not about stating the circumstances in my life. There is nothing going wrong right now. Things are going well overall. The title is meant to be a reality check. It's a true question. How many things could really go wrong? There are only so many that can go wrong. Many things will go right. Therefore, it's not necessary for me to plan for a ridiculous amount of things going wrong. I don't need a plan "A" and back it up with plans, B, C, D, E, F, . . . Plan "A" and Plan "B" should generally be sufficient.</p><p>As I was walking Zen this beautiful morning, I took some time to think about how many "now" projects I have going on and how many "next" projects I also have going on. One thing that became clear to me is that I tend to take on too many of both and that I tend to drag out my "now" projects because I'm afraid of running out of them and not having something to replace them.</p><p>I guess I should clarify what I mean by my "now" projects. Those are the projects I need to work on "now" so that I've got a means to support myself and my family. My "next" projects are what I'd like to transition into. So, to get specific, my "now" projects are web development projects. The income I'm using to support my family comes from doing billable web development work for clients. My "next" projects are things that will allow me to produce a passive / residual income. They are the things that will allow me to truly be my own boss. Specifically, I'd like to sell online education.</p><p>At the moment, I have three active web development clients and one intermittent client. Without spending too much time "now" writing this post, what ends up happening is that I don't focus on any one of those projects to drive it to completion. However, that's changing starting today. I'd like to wrap up two of those projects by the end of the month.</p><p>I've got all sorts of "next" projects going on as well. I don't even want to start describing what all of those are. I'm going to be working to wrap up some of those as quickly as possible as well. I've already set some of my Udemy classes to private that I know I need to put the time into to bring them up to par. Seeing that I won't have enough time to give them the loving attention that they need any time in the near future, and given the fact that they aren't making any sales anyway, it made sense to put them private. At least I've gotten those "next" projects off my shoulders for the time being.</p><p>Another area I will be addressing in the near term is to get rid of as much "stuff" as I can. I want to keep only the things that I am actively using. I don't need to hold onto things "just in case" I need them at some indeterminate point in the future.</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
