---
excerpt: "<p>I've been filling out applications to become a full-time employee of
  different web development companies. I did get one response that said they couldn't
  even come close to my expected salary range. Apart from that, it's been a deafening
  silence. (I guess I never did write about interviewing with a company that did extend
  an offer for $95,000. However, we had discussed that I was looking for $115K - $125K.
  On all my applications since then, I've been specifying that I was seeking $120K
  - $130K.)</p>"
layout: blog
title: Here we are, again
created: 1482171175
---
<p>I've been filling out applications to become a full-time employee of different web development companies. I did get one response that said they couldn't even come close to my expected salary range. Apart from that, it's been a deafening silence. (I guess I never did write about interviewing with a company that did extend an offer for $95,000. However, we had discussed that I was looking for $115K - $125K. On all my applications since then, I've been specifying that I was seeking $120K - $130K.)</p><p>I don't have any freelance projects going on at the moment and haven't had any substantial amount of work for at least two or three months now.</p><p>I feel like I'm right back at the beginning of when I started out doing web development. It's obviously not really the same. Nonetheless, I am in a position that it's entirely uncertain when I'm going to pick up my next paying gig. As a result, I've been experiencing a lot of self-doubt about whether I overshot the mark by raising my rates to $125/hour and seeking the salary range I specified.</p><p>I've been weighing options and paths forward, though. And, I'm doing my best to have faith, remain optimistic and confident and to keep everything in perspective. One point to which I make sure to return my focus is that I am under contract to produce "Mastering Drupal 8 Development" for Packt Publishing. While I don't expect that my royalties from the course will amount to much, I am hoping that it will create more visibility and establish credibility for me that will result in my job prospects taking a significant upturn.</p><p>I have been making sure to do five minutes of meditation each day for a while now, though I can't remember exactly when I started back into it again.</p><p>I did create a <a href="https://www.howtobeasuccessfulwebdeveloper.com">free eight day email course</a> to build my email list and a <a href="https://forums.successfulwebdeveloper.com">membership website</a>. Yeah, you could say it's a bit ironic. At least I am actually following the advice I give in the course.</p><p>On the whole, I'm doing my best to look at this as an opportunity for self-improvement as I journey along on my path to the success I seek to create. It will be good for me to have experienced these challenges and setbacks. They will keep me humble and help me to relate better to others. These blog posts will serve as wonderful mechanisms to keep me grounded and not get too full of myself.</p><p>Today I have everything I need to make it through the day. I'm pretty well set for tomorrow and many more coming days as well. I just need to take it one day at a time and remember to keep on keeping on. This, too, shall pass. I will be on the other side of this (looking back) at some point.</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
