---
excerpt: TL;DR I had to buckle down and strip out everything else.
layout: blog
title: Yes, it's been a long time my friend
created: 1510533061
---
<p>So, where have I been all this time? What happened to the weekly update?</p><p>TL;DR I had to buckle down and strip out everything else. I stopped exercising, blogging, creating videos and pretty much everything else. I focused strictly on billing as many hours as I could on my paying gig and as many hours as I could on the weekend finishing "Mastering Drupal 8 Development."</p><p>Yes, YES, YES!!!!! I finished the course on October 29. After that I still had some requests to change some things and fill out some paperwork from the editor.</p><p>I am so done with working seven days a week. It feels more amazing than I can describe to have my weekends free to do as I like.</p><p>Last weekend I did some yard work and spent time with my family.</p><p>Yesterday I spent pretty much the whole day finishing the final prep work to allow me to finish the garden path that has been in progress for I-really-can't-remember-for-how-long. I think I started it in the summer of 2016. Today I spent more time with my family.</p><p>I still haven't started exercising again. I'd like to be able to get myself back to the point that I can get a full night's sleep and get up early in the morning to either get in a workout or do a couple hour's worth of work so that I can take break later in the day to do a workout.</p><p>Anyway, I think that's good enough for catching up on some of the details. Mostly, I wanted to write this post to express how extremely grateful I am to be moving into a new phase in my life. As I already wrote, I am so done with working seven days a week. I am so done with feeling constant pressure to be accomplishing something.</p><p>I officially paid of my mortgage in January of 2017 (thanks in no small part to a generous gift from my mother-in-law). My family is totally debt-free. I've got a great project that allows me to bill 40 hours a week. I should make the most money I have ever made in my life. My wife and I are in counseling to strengthen an already good relationship and turn it into an amazing relationship. I'm really proud of the job on did on the class for Packt Publishing. I'm wrapping up some other unfinished business in my life.</p><p>LIFE IS GOOD!</p><p>I am going to allow myself to enjoy it. No, I'm going to thoroughly savor it.</p><p>I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me. I surrender and am open and ready to receive.</p><p>Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy</p>
