---
excerpt: Writing some thoughts about life these days
title: Musing about life - March 22, 2020
---
Well, why don't I start out by updating the latest on my option contract?
In fact, I should give an update about my option contracts.
On March 9, 2022 I sold another Put contract for BYND at a strike price of 100 with a premium of 34 for the January 21, 2022 expiration date. Here is where things stand right now:

My contract at the 120 strike price has a last sold price of $74.36.
My contract at the 100 strike price has a last sold price of $52.50.

So, the buyer of my first contract risked $4000 and can now sell for $7436, which would be an 85.9% return in two months.
The buyer of my second contract risked $3400 and can now sell for $5250, which would be a 54.41% return in about two weeks.
And I thought I was doing so well with the possibility to earn 50% in two years on that first contract!
I still haven't been assigned on either contract, so it still remains to be seen what the final outcome for me is.

I am still keeping an eye on what's going on with the stock and am considering selling another Put contract at $50 or $55, aiming to get a premium in the $20 - $25 range.
Maybe you would call me foolish.
I'm still comfortable that I'm going to meet or beat the returns I'm aiming to get on my money.
I don't mind if I "lose" money compared to how much others have made.

I think it's worth mentioning (for the point in time that this will be read in the future) that we are going through the COVID-19 global pandemic.
Along that line, I want to share a few other thoughts.

Work has been even more stressful for me on account of having to deal with updates to the site related to COVID-19.
I really reached my limit a couple weekends ago and was feeling ready to be rolled off the project.
I'm still waiting to have a discussion with my career counselor and my mentor about the situation of constantly being pushed to work extra hours.
I understand that this pandemic was totally undpredictable.
It's not about this true and unexpected crisis; it's about the fact that we've been put in a crisis mode since the beginning of the project.

And yet, I completely recognize how fortunate I am to be able to work from home, to have a job that pays me a great salary, and to know that all of this is just an inconvenience for me once all is said and done.
I have so many choices in my life and so many things that are going so well and I'm making sure to keep that truth front and center in my mind.

Lana, Eli and I watched Albert Brook's "Defending your Life" last night.
I really enjoyed it and laughed quite a bit while watching it.
The movie's main messages are that we shouldn't be so afraid all the time and that we should be generous with ourselves.

Today I started to read Frank Ostaseski's "The Five Invitations."
I'm already really looking forward to what the author has to share, even only having made it through page 14.
Here are the five invitations the author offers about how to approach not just death, but how to live life to its fullest.

* Don't wait.
* Welcome everything; push away nothing.
* Bring your whole self to the experience.
* Find a place of rest in the middle of things.
* Cultivate don't know mind.

I think that the messages from both Albert Brooks and Frank Ostaseski are so fitting for this particular point in my life's adventure.

I give thanks to the Universe for the abundance it provides me.
I surrender and am open and ready to receive.

Bhavatu sabba mangalam - May all beings be happy
